Our school dormitory was a very long room with about thirty beds, fifteen on
either side of the room. This was good for pillow fights. Class V would take
on Class VI (the two senior classes in our Prep school) and there would be
plenty of space for leaping, struggling small boys, pillows flying, feathers flying,
until there was a cry of ‘Here comes Fishy!’ or ‘Here comes Olly!’ and either Mr
Fisher, the Headmaster, or Mr Oliver, the Senior Master, would come striding in,
cane in hand, to put an end to the general mayhem. Pillow fights were allowed, up to
a point; nobody got hurt. But parents sometimes complained if, at the end of the
term, a boy came home with a pillow devoid of cotton-wool or feathers.
In that last year at Prep school in Shimla, there were four of us who were close
friends—Bimal, whose home was in Bombay; Riaz, who came from Lahore; Bran,
who hailed from Vellore; and your narrator, who lived wherever his father (then in
the Air Force) was posted.
We called ourselves the ‘Four Feathers’, the feathers signifying that we were
companions in adventure, comrades-in-arms, and knights of the round table. Bimal
adopted a peacock’s feather as his emblem—he was always a bit showy. Riaz chose
a falcon’s feather—although we couldn’t find one. Bran and I were at first offered
crows or murghi feathers, but we protested vigorously and threatened a walkout.
Finally, I settled for a parrot’s feather (taken from Mrs Fisher’s pet parrot), and
Bran found a woodpecker’s, which suited him, as he was always knocking things
about.
Bimal was all thin legs and arms, so light and frisky that at times he seemed to
be walking on air. We called him ‘Bambi’, after the delicate little deer in the Disney
film. Riaz, on the other hand, was a sturdy boy, good at games though not very
studious; but always good-natured, always smiling.
Bran was a dark, good-looking boy from the South; he was just a little spoilt—
hated being given out in a cricket match and would refuse to leave the crease!—but
he was affectionate and a loyal friend. I was the ‘scribe’—good at inventing stories
in order to get out of scrapes—but hopeless at sums, my highest marks being
twenty-two out of one hundred.
On Sunday afternoons, when there were no classes or organized games, we
were allowed to roam about on the hillside below the school. The Four Feathers
would laze about on the short summer grass, sharing the occasional food parcel
from home, reading comics (sometimes a book), and making plans for the long
winter holidays. My father, who collected everything from stamps to seashells to
butterflies, had given me a butterfly net and urged me to try and catch a rare species
which, he said, was found only near Chotta Shimla. He described it as a large purple
butterfly with yellow and black borders on its wings. A Purple Emperor, I think it
was called. As I wasn’t very good at identifying butterflies, I would chase anything
that happened to flit across the school grounds, usually ending up with Common
Red Admirals, Clouded Yellows, or Cabbage Whites. But that Purple Emperor—that
rare specimen being sought by collectors the world over—proved elusive. I would
have to seek my fortune in some other line of endeavour.
One day, scrambling about among the rocks, and thorny bushes below the
school, I almost fell over a small bundle lying in the shade of a young spruce tree.
On taking a closer look, I discovered that the bundle was really a baby, wrapped up
in a tattered old blanket.
‘Feathers, feathers!’ I called, ‘come here and look. A baby’s been left here!’
The feathers joined me and we all stared down at the infant, who was fast asleep.
‘Who would leave a baby on the hillside?’ asked Bimal of no one in particular.
‘Someone who doesn’t want it,’ said Bran.
‘And hoped some good people would come along and keep it,’ said Riaz.
‘A panther might have come along instead,’ I said. ‘Can’t leave it here.’
‘Well, we’ll just have to adopt it,’ said Bimal.
‘We can’t adopt a baby,’ said Bran.
‘Why not?’
‘We have to be married.’
‘We don’t.’
‘Not us, you dope. The grown-ups who adopt babies.’
Well, we can’t just leave it here for grown-ups to come along,’ I said.
‘We don’t even know if it’s a boy or a girl,’ said Riaz.
‘Makes no difference. A baby’s a baby. Let’s take it back to school.’
‘And keep it in the dormitory?’
‘Of course not. Who’s going to feed it? Babies need milk. We’ll hand it over to
Mrs Fisher. She doesn’t have a baby.’
‘Maybe she doesn’t want one. Look, it’s beginning to cry. Let’s hurry!’
Riaz picked up the wide-awake and crying baby and gave it to Bimal who gave it
to Bran who gave it to me. The Four Feathers marched up the hill to school with a
very noisy baby.
‘Now it’s done potty in the blanket,’ I complained. ‘And some of it’s on my
shirt.’
‘Never mind,’ said Bimal. ‘It’s in a good cause. You’re a Boy Scout, remember?
You’re supposed to help people in distress.’
The headmaster and his wife were in their drawing room, enjoying their
afternoon tea and cakes. We trudged in, and Bimal announced, ‘We’ve got
something for Mrs Fisher.’
Mrs Fisher took one look at the bundle in my arms and let out a shriek. ‘What
have you brought here, Bond?’
‘A baby, ma’am. I think it’s a girl. Do you want to adopt it?’
Mrs Fisher threw up her arms in consternation, and turned to her husband. ‘What
are we to do, Frank? These boys are impossible. They’ve picked up someone’s
child!’
‘We’ll have to inform the police,’ said Mr Fisher, reaching for the telephone.
‘We can’t have lost babies in the school.’
Just then there was a commotion outside, and a wild-eyed woman, her clothes
dishevelled, entered at the front door accompanied by several menfolk from one of
the villages. She ran towards us, crying out, ‘My baby, my baby! Mera bachcha!
You’ve stolen my baby!’
‘We found it on the hillside,’ I stammered. ‘That’s right,’ said Bran. ‘Finder’s
keepers!’
‘Quiet, Adams,’ said Mr Fisher, holding up his hand for order and addressing
the villagers in a friendly manner. ‘These boys found the baby alone on the hillside
and brought it here before…before…’
‘Before the hyenas got it,’ I put in.
‘Quite right, Bond. And why did you leave your child alone?’ he asked the
woman.
‘I put her down for five minutes so that I could climb the plum tree and collect
the plums. When I came down, the baby had gone! But I could hear it crying up on
the hill. I called the menfolk and we come looking for it.’
‘Well, here’s your baby,’ I said, thrusting it into her arms. By then I was glad to
be rid of it! ‘Look after it properly in future.’
‘Kidnapper!’ she screamed at me.
Mr Fisher succeeded in mollifying the villagers. ‘These boys are good Scouts,’
he told them. ‘It’s their business to help people.’
‘Scout Law Number Three, sir,’ I added. ‘To be useful and helpful.’
And then the Headmaster turned the tables on the villagers. ‘By the way, those
plum trees belong to the school. So do the peaches and apricots. Now I know why
they’ve been disappearing so fast!’
The villagers, a little chastened, went their way.
Mr Fisher reached for his cane. From the way he fondled it I knew he was
itching to use it on our bottoms.
‘No, Frank,’ said Mrs Fisher, intervening on our behalf. ‘It was really very sweet
of them to look after that baby. And look at Bond—he’s got baby-goo all over his
clothes.’
‘So he has. Go and take a bath, all of you. And what are you grinning about,
Bond?’
‘Scout Law Number Eight, sir. A Scout smiles and whistles under all
difficulties.’
And so ended the first adventure of the Four Feathers